 Technical Report for the 
Candelaria Copper Mining Complex,  Atacama Region, Region III, Chile
 
Executive Summary 
 
The Candelaria Copper Mining Complex (CCMC) comprises two adjacent copper operations 
producing copper concentrates from open pit and underground mines located near Copiapó in the 
Atacama Region, Region III of Chile: Compañia Contra ctual Minera Candelaria  (Minera Candelaria 
or Candelaria) and Compañia Contractual Minera Ojos del Salado (Minera Ojos del Salado or Ojos del Salado). Minera Candelaria is an open pit and underground mine providing copper ore to an on-
site concentrator with a capacity of 75,000 tonnes per day. Minera Ojos del Salado comprises two 
underground mines, Santos and Alcaparrosa. The Sa ntos mine provides copper ore to an on-site 
concentrator with a capacity of 3,700 tonnes  per day and 1,400 tonnes per day to the Minera 
Candelaria mill, while all ore from the Alcaparros a mine is treated at the Minera Candelaria mill. 
 
The Candelaria Copper Mining Complex is indirectly owned by Lundin Mining Corporation (LMC or the Company) (80%) and Sumitomo Metals Mining Co ., Ltd. and Sumitomo Corporation (collectively, 
Sumitomo) (20%). For clarity, references to "Candel aria Copper Mining Complex" or "CCMC" in this 
Technical Report refer to both the Minera Candelaria and Minera Ojos del Salado properties. 
 
Lundin Mining Corporation is a diversified Canadian base metals mining company with operations 
and projects in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Portugal , Sweden, and the United States of America, 
primarily producing copper, zinc, gold and nickel. LMC is a Canadian public company with its head 
office in Toronto, Canada and its common shares are listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange (symbol 
LUN) and the NASDAQ Stockholm (symbol LUMI).  
In June 2022, LMC retained the services of SRK Consulting (Canada) Inc. (SRK) to visit the 
Candelaria Copper Mining Complex and to compile this Technical Teport pursuant to National 
Instrument 43-101 Standards of Disclosure for Mine ral Projects and Form 43-101F1. This Technical 
Report updates the November 28, 2018, Techni cal Report entitled "Technical Report for the 
Candelaria Copper Mining Complex,  Atacama Region, Region III, Chile".  It summarizes the technical 
information that is relevant to support the di sclosure of the updated Mineral Resources and Mineral 
Reserves estimates (as of December 31, 2022) contained herein prepared using revised economic 
parameters and the positive results of recent exploration programs. 
 
Since acquiring Freeport-McMoRan Inc.'s 80% interest in the CCMC in November 2014, LMC has 
actively grown the annual reported Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves by a combination of 
factors. Although this growth was primarily driven by exploration success,  other factors including 
Mineral Resource modelling optimizations, operational efficiencies and innovation and the reduction 
of reporting cut-off grades also contributed to th is growth. Although drilling exploration expenditure 
targeting Mineral Resource expansion has decreased in recent years, with reported Mineral Resources and Reserves having plateaued, LMC has managed to comfortably replace depleted 
Mineral Reserves on an annual basis. CCMC expl oration staff will continue to define and upgrade 
underground and open pit Mineral Resource estimates on the property but will also turn their 
attention to evaluate the considerable exploration po tential in areas external to the current mine plan. CAPR002061 – Lundin Mining Corporation 
Technical Report for the Candelaria Copper Mining Complex, Chile Page iv 
 
Property Description, Location and Access 
 The Candelaria Copper Mining Complex is in Chile's Atacama Region, Region III, approximately 
20 kilometres south of the city of Copiapó and adjac ent to the community of Tierra Amarilla all of 
which are approximately 650 kilometres north of S antiago (Figure i and Figure ii). The properties are 
easily accessed using the public road system. Copiapó is a modern city with all the regular services 
and a population of approximately 170,000. Personnel employed by  the Candelaria Copper Mining 
Complex are primarily from the Atacama region. Th e Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines receive 
electrical power through long-term  contracts with AES Andes S.A., a nation-wide energy company.  
 
The primary water supply comes from a desalination plant, which was commissioned in 2013 and is 
located at the Punta Padrones port facility at t he nearby seaport of Caldera. Both the desalination 
plant and the Punta Padrones port are owned by Minera Candelaria. The copper concentrate is 
trucked from site to local customers or sh ipped from Punta Padrones to world markets. 
 
SRK Team   February 22, 2023 Copiapó has a desert climate with mild temperatur es year-round. Winters are mild with warm 
temperatures. Annual precipitation averages approxim ately 17 millimetres, the majority of which falls 
in the winter months. The elevation of the mini ng operations does not exceed 800 metres above sea 
level. The climate and relatively low elevation al low for year-round mining and exploration activities. 
 
The Minera Candelaria property comprises inside Candelaria District 220 mining exploitation 
concessions (approximately 6,094 he ctares) and 29 mining explorati on concessions (approximately 
6,680 hectares) (Figure 2 and Appendix A) and outsi de Candelaria District 51 mining exploitation 
concessions (approximately 5,966 he ctares) and 11 mining explorati on concessions (approximately 
1,300 hectares). The tenements are free of mortgag es, encumbrances, prohibitions, injunctions, and 
litigation. The tenements containing the active and future mining activities are not affected by 
royalties. The Candelaria Copper Mining Complex holds certain surface and underground water use 
rights and certain surface water use rights, all free of mortgages, encumbrances, prohibitions, 
injunctions, and litigation. 
 
There are no known factors or risks that may affect access, title, or the right or ability to perform work 
on the Candelaria Copper Mining Complex.  
 
Geology, Mineralization, and Deposit Types 
 
Regional, Local, and Property Geology 
 
The Candelaria sulphide deposit is located at t he boundary between the Coastal Cordillera and the 
Copiapó Precordillera. The Coastal Cordillera of Chañaral and Copiapó is composed of Permian to Lower Cretaceous intrusions within a basement  of metasedimentary rocks of Devonian to 
Carboniferous age. Volcanic, volcaniclastic, and ma rine carbonate rocks represent intra- and back-
arc sequences that were deposited during Early to Mid-Cretaceous.   The Candelaria, Santos and Alcaparrosa mines and the Española deposit are located in the district 
of Punta del Cobre. The polymetallic sulphide deposi ts are hosted in volcanic rocks of the Punta del 
Cobre Formation. Polymetallic sulphide deposits in the Punta del Cobre district are located to the 
east of the main branches of the Atacama fault z one, a subduction-linked, strike-slip fault system 
stretching over 1,000 kilometres along the Chilean coast and active at least since the Jurassic. The dominant structural elements of t he Punta del Cobre area are the no rtheast-trending Tierra Amarilla 
Anticlinorium, a southeast-verging fold-and-thrust  system and a series of north-northwest- to 
northwest-trending high-angle faults.

Calcareous, sedimentary, and volcaniclastic rock of the Abundancia and Punta del Cobre formations 
are exposed within the open pit of the Candelaria mine. The lowermost unit in the Candelaria mine and Candelaria Underground is the Lower Andesite, a compact succession of porphyritic to massive 
andesite and volcaniclastic breccias with intense biotite-quartz-magnetite-albite alteration. The 
Santos mine is located in the eastern limb of the north-northeast-trending Tierra Amarilla anticline, 
and the rocks of the Santos mine are comprised mainly of the Punta del Cobre and Abundancia 
Formations. The Alcaparrosa mine is located in the northern part of the Punta del Cobre mining 
district, with the Punta del Cobre Formation subdivided into a Lower Andesite unit, which is succeeded by volcanoclastic breccias, albitophyre and pyroxene- scapolite hornfels interbedded with 
garnetites. The Española deposit is in the south portion of Candelaria-Punta del Cobre district, and 
occurs in the contact aureole between the Copiapó batholith and sedimentary and volcano-
sedimentary rocks of the Chañarc illo Group and the Punta del Cobre Formation in a tectonically 
depressed block controlled by San Gregorio fault system.  Mineralization  The copper-gold sulphide mineralization found at  the Candelaria Copper Mining Complex is 
generally referred to as iron oxide copper gold (IOCG) mineralization. The sulphide mineralization occurs in breccias, stockwork veinlets, disseminatio ns in andesite, and as an internal tuff unit. There 
are also some localized controls to mineralization in  the form of faults, breccias, veins, and foliation. 
Candelaria has become an exploration model for Andean-type IOCG deposits that display close relationships to the plutonic complexes and broadly coeval fault systems. Depending on lithology 
and the structural setting, the polymetallic sulphide mineralization can occur as  veins, hydrothermal 
breccias, replacement mantos, and calcic skarns. The Candelaria IOCG system lies within the 
thermal aureole of the Lower Cretaceous magmat ic arc plutonic suite in the Candelaria-Punta del 
Cobre district.  The main mineralized body at the Candelaria mine is up to 400 metres thick in its central part and 
thins towards the edges. In east-west sections , the mineralization has a lenticular, downward 
concave shape with a steep eastern limb and a shallowly dipping western limb. The shape of the mineralized body in north-south sect ion is irregular. In plan view, the extent of the mineralization in 
Candelaria is approximately 1,400 metres by 2,400 metres. The mineralized body was folded after its formation. The north-northeast-trending fold ax is corresponds to the Tierra Amarilla Anticline. 
 In the Santos mine, three styles of mineralizatio n are observed: veins, mantos, and breccia bodies. 
An important vein in the Santos Mine is the Isabel  Vein, which has a northwest striking orientation, 
and extends over 1 kilometre in length and between 4 and 30 metres in width. Manto-type 
mineralization occurs as tabular bodies located at  two sedimentary horizons located in the floor and 
roof of the albitophyre. The manto mineralization is characterized by variable iron contents with 
magnetite common in the north and deeper areas, and specular hematite in the south. Mineralization 
occurs within breccia bodies, which are typically contained with the albitophyre and lower andesite 
units and the mineralization generally forms steeply west-dipping and north-northwest- to northwest-
striking bodies.  
 
Mineralization at the Alcaparrosa mine principally occurs as mantos that trend to the northeast and 
dip to the west. Ore mineralogy consists of chalco pyrite, pyrite, and magnetite, with trace pyrrhotite, 
molybdenite, and arsenopyrite. Mineralization at t he Alcaparrosa mine also occurs as veinlets 
defining dense stockwork, breccias as well as fi ne dissemination in biotite meta-andesites. High-
grade bodies are also found in massive vein s striking north-northwest, north, and east. 
 In the Española project area, mineralization occurs  within mantos hosted mainly in a brown garnet 
skarn, and in lesser proportions within silica ho rnfels. Chalcopyrite is the primary copper sulfide 
mineral found as clusters and in disseminated form, commonly associated with brown garnet 
porphyroblasts. Near the surface and down to a dept h of approximately 70 m, the mineralization is 
oxidized, characterized by the presence of chrysocolla, malachite, native copper, diogenite and 
bornite. 
 
Deposit Types 

The copper-gold sulphide mineralization present at the Candelaria Copper Mining Complex is generally referred to as iron oxide copper gold (IOCG). Depending on lithology and the structural setting, the polymetallic sulphide mineralization can occur as veins, hydrothermal breccias, 
replacement mantos, and calcic skarns.  The Candelaria IOCG deposit lies within the me tamorphic aureole of the Lower Cretaceous 
magmatic arc plutonic complex that is located within the Candelaria-Punta del Cobre district, Atacama Region, northern Chile. IOCG deposits are primarily defined by their elevated magnetite 
and / or hematite with elevated copper and gold contents. 

Exploration 
 
Ongoing exploration is conducted by the Candelaria Copper Mining Complex with the primary 
purpose of supporting mining and increasing the esti mated Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves 
available for mining. Exploration is focused on the known mantos, veins, and breccia masses in 
proximity to existing open pit and underground infras tructure. Historically, this strategy has proven 
very effective in defining new Mineral Resources available for underground mining. Much of the 
exploration is conducted from underground, requ iring significant underground development to 
provide adequate drilling stat ions. Regional explorat ion is also undertaken on the large properties 
surrounding the mines to identify targets and defi ne new areas with Mineral Resource potential. 
 
From 2010 to the end of June 2022, Minera Candelaria and Minera Ojos del Salado have together 
invested more than US$267M in exploration to ex pand the Mineral Resources primarily below the 
Candelaria Open Pit, to the north and south of the pit, and at the three underground mines (Candelaria Underground, Santos and Alcaparrosa) . During this period, 3,780 core boreholes 
(1,051,068 metres) were drilled requiring over 15,000 metres of underground development to 
provide access for drilling. 

In 2015, a new exploration and resource devel opment tool, Mineral Inventory Range Analysis 
(MIRA), was initiated with the purpose to understan d the potential mineral inventory remaining in the 
mines as well as within the Candelaria land hol dings. Brownfield explorat ion drilling began late in 
2017 with surface drilling commencing in the south di strict of the Candelaria land concession in an 
area called Española. A new Mineral Resource mode l was constructed with this data to support 
Mineral Resource estimation. The Mineral Reso urce model was updated again in 2019, following 
additional drilling of 8,027 metres in 34 boreholes that was carried out in 2019.The recent aggressive 
exploration program has resulted in significant new discoveries with a positive impact particularly on 
the life of the three underground mines. 
 Building on this exploration success, future expl oration for the period 2023 to 2027 will focus on 
maintaining operational fronts in the mines, target ing the lateral extensions of the areas investigated 
since 2010 and exploring district targets to the nor th and south of mining infrastructure within the 
Minera Candelaria and Minera Ojos del Salado land holdings. The planned exploration program 
includes approximately 1,160 metres of underground development, 171,500 metres of core drilling, 
and continued geophysical campaigns at a tota l estimated combined cost of US$48.0M. 
 The exploration potential of the Candelaria Copper Mining Complex remains excellent. The qualified 
person is of the opinion that continued exploratio n programs and the MIRA exploration and Mineral 
Resource development initiative will continue to expand the underground Mineral Resource 
estimates. 
 
Drilling 
 
Mineral Resources are estimated from information obtained from surface and underground boreholes. From 1990 to June 30, 2022, 4,689 core  and percussion boreholes (1,361,873 metres) 
were drilled in and around the Candelaria mine. A pproximately 96% of all drilling comprised core 
boreholes. 
 
From 1990 to 2004, there were five exploration diamond drill holes drilled in Española totaling 
2,861 metres. No exploration wo rk occurred between 2005 and 2016. From July 2017 to the end of 
June 2022, 154 new diamond drill holes were completed totaling 44,952 metres. To date, Española 
has 159 drill holes with 47,813 metres in total. In the Santos mine, a total 1,604 core boreholes 
(323,591 metres) were drilled from underground and surface stations from 1988 until June 30, 2022. 
The borehole data base for the Alcaparrosa mine contains 1,165 boreholes (283,133 metres) drilled 
from surface and underground locations from 1990 to June 30, 2022. 
 
The drilling and sampling procedures  are consistent with general ly recognized industry best 
practices. The qualified person concludes that the samples are representative of the source 
materials and there is no evidence that the sampling process introduced a bias. 
 
Recovery Methods 

Candelaria Copper Mining Complex operates two processing plants: Candelaria and Pedro Aguirre 
Cerda (PAC). The Candelaria processing pl ant receives ore from the Candelaria open pit, 
Candelaria underground North and South Sector and part of Santos underground mines and has a 
nameplate capacity of 75,000 tonnes per day. The PA C processing plant receives ore exclusively 
from the Santos underground mine and has a design capacity of 3,800 tonnes per day. 
 
The annual throughput of Minera Candelaria from 20 05 to late 2022 averaged 26 Mtpa, equivalent to 
70,800 tonnes per day at a plant utilization of 92%. The average process plant recoveries for copper, 
gold and silver during this period were 93%, 72% and 83% respectively. Copper head grades are 
forecast to be between 0.5% to 0.7% until 2035 befor e falling to below 0.4% at the end of mine life. 
Reclaimed stockpiles and Candelaria Underground will be the only mill feed source at the end of 
mine life. 
 
In 2020, CCMC initiated the Candelaria Mill Optimization Project (CMOP) phase 3, also called 
debottlenecking project, to increase concentrator throughput by an expected 2,000 tonnes per day. CAPR002061 – Lundin Mining Corporation 
Technical Report for the Candelaria Copper Mining Complex, Chile Page xvii 
 
The PAC concentrator of Minera Ojos del Salado has been in operation since 1929. The 
concentrator processes 3,800 tonnes per day of fresh feed from the Santos underground mine with 
an average head grade of 0.85% copper achieving a reco very of 94%. Final flotation tailings from the 
PAC plant are pumped to a new line to Los Diques, installed in 2019. 
 
Copper concentrates are trucked to the port at Punta Padrones, near Caldera. Concentrate grade 
has averaged 30% copper since 2019. Candelaria  produces a clean concentrate containing no 
penalty elements, with payable gold and silver . Gold content in the concentrate has been 
consistently 5 to 6 g/t with silver between 80 to  100 g/t. Zinc grades in the concentrate since 2019 
averaged 0.6%, which is below penalty levels. Fo r the PAC processing plant, copper concentrate 
has averaged 30% copper, 5 g/t gold, and 67 g/t silver since 2004. Gold and silver recoveries are 
slightly lower than Candelaria, at 72% each. 
 Minera Candelaria has an agreement with a third- party company to process Candelaria's flotation 
tailings and produce a magnetite concentrate as an additional source of by-product revenue. 
 